XS✔ ◾ Create rule.md - Secrets masking in GitHub Actions (#6947)
SSWConsulting/SSW.Rules.Content: rules/mask-secrets-in-github-actions/rule.md

---
type: rule

> title: Do you know if your secrets are securely managed in the GitHub Actions?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Do you know how to mask secrets from GitHub Actions logs?
```

uri: mask-secrets-in-github-actions
authors:

>   - title: Aman Kumar
>     url: https://ssw.com.au/people/aman-kumar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - title: Matt Wicks
    url: https://ssw.com.au/people/matt-wicks
  - title: Aman Kumar
    url: https://ssw.com.au/people/aman-kumar
```

> related: []

Reviewer: ```suggestion
related:
  - enterprise-secrets-in-pipelines
```

created: 2023-10-10T10:33:21.000Z
guid: bcb27bdf-9553-48e1-9a36-45ac327bdd06

---

> We often use third party secret stores (i.e Azure Key Vault) when adding secrets into our pipelines but do we know if we are injecting them securely into GitHub Actions?
> 
> <!--endintro-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When working with GitHub Actions, there are instances where we need to pull a secret value from a CLI tool and use it within our workflow. 

However, this practice can inadvertently expose the secret in the GitHub Actions logs if not handled securely. To prevent such exposure, it is crucial to redact the secret from the logs using the add-mask workflow command provided by GitHub.

This command ensures that the secret value is replaced with asterisks (****) in the logs, thereby preventing any unintended disclosure of the secret.

<!--endintro-->

**Example:**

Consider the scenario where we need to retrieve a secret from Azure Key Vault (there is no pre-built action to do this from Microsoft) and use it in our GitHub Actions workflow. In the following bad example, the secret is exposed in the logs:
```

``` yaml
      
- name: keyVault - Secrets
        shell: pwsh
        id: KeyVaultSecrets
        run: |

        $GoogleRecaptchaSiteKey = (az keyvault secret show --name Google-Recaptcha-Site-KEY --vault-name ${{ env.KEY_VAULT}} --query value -o tsv)
        echo "GoogleRecaptchaSiteKey=$GoogleRecaptchaSiteKey" >> $env:GITHUB_OUTPUT

```

> ::: bad 
> Figure: Bad example - We are injecting the secrets then outputting them in plain text
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: bad 
Figure: Bad example - The secret is exposed in the GitHub logs
:::
```
add a screenshot with the secret in the logs

> In example above, secrets can be seen by anyone in the GitHub logs. Here is a more secure way by adding the `add-mask` workflow command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

``` yaml      
- name: keyVault - Secrets
        shell: pwsh
        id: KeyVaultSecrets
        run: |

        $GoogleRecaptchaSiteKey = (az keyvault secret show --name Google-Recaptcha-Site-KEY --vault-name ${{ env.KEY_VAULT}} --query value -o tsv)
        echo "::add-mask::$GoogleRecaptchaSiteKey"

        echo "GoogleRecaptchaSiteKey=$GoogleRecaptchaSiteKey" >> $env:GITHUB_OUTPUT

```

> ::: good 
> Figure: Good example - We are masking the secrets and then outputting them
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: good 
Figure: Good example - The secret is masked in the GitHub logs
:::

For further details on masking secrets in logs, refer to the [GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/workflow-commands-for-github-actions#masking-a-value-in-a-log).

This method ensures that while you can still use the secret within your workflow, it remains masked in the logs, mitigating the risk of accidental secret exposure.
```
add a screenshot showing the secret redacted from the logs

guid: bcb27bdf-9553-48e1-9a36-45ac327bdd06
---

When working with GitHub Actions, there are instances where we need to pull a secret value from a CLI tool and use it within our workflow.

However, this practice can inadvertently expose the secret in the GitHub Actions logs if not handled securely. To prevent such exposure, it is crucial to redact the secret from the logs using the add-mask workflow command provided by GitHub.

This command ensures that the secret value is replaced with asterisks (\*\*\*\*) in the logs, thereby preventing any unintended disclosure of the secret.

<!--endintro-->

**Example:**

Consider the scenario where we need to retrieve a secret from Azure Key Vault (there is no pre-built action to do this from Microsoft) and use it in our GitHub Actions workflow. In the following bad example, the secret is exposed in the logs:

```yaml

- name: keyVault - Secrets
        shell: pwsh
        id: KeyVaultSecrets
        run: |

        $GoogleRecaptchaSiteKey = (az keyvault secret show --name Google-Recaptcha-Site-KEY --vault-name ${{ env.KEY_VAULT}} --query value -o tsv)
        echo "GoogleRecaptchaSiteKey=$GoogleRecaptchaSiteKey" >> $env:GITHUB_OUTPUT

```

> ![](secret-without-add-mask.png)
> 
> ::: bad
> Figure: Bad example - The secret is exposed in the GitHub logs
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: bad
![Figure: Bad example - The secret is exposed in the GitHub logs](secret-without-add-mask.png)
:::
```

```yaml
- name: keyVault - Secrets
        shell: pwsh
        id: KeyVaultSecrets
        run: |

        $GoogleRecaptchaSiteKey = (az keyvault secret show --name Google-Recaptcha-Site-KEY --vault-name ${{ env.KEY_VAULT}} --query value -o tsv)
        echo "::add-mask::$GoogleRecaptchaSiteKey"

        echo "GoogleRecaptchaSiteKey=$GoogleRecaptchaSiteKey" >> $env:GITHUB_OUTPUT

```

> ![](secret-with-add-mask.png)
> ::: good
> Figure: Good example - The secret is masked in the GitHub logs
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: good
![Figure: Good example - The secret is masked in the GitHub logs](secret-with-add-mask.png)
:::
```
